###  Audio-Tampering-Detection
Audio authentication is a standard procedure performed on the audio, submitted as an evidence in a typical forensic examination. Audio authentication is a precursory
procedure to correctly detect the trace of digitally edited and re-recorded audios. Basically, it is the process of determining whether audio is original or is altered. Before
the advent of advanced techniques for authentication, certain tests which detect manipulation of a signal included tests such as listening tests, waveform analysis,
frequency spectrogram test, etc. Abrupt changes in noise clicks in audio are evident by just hearing the audio clip and could be detected using the listening test. Due to the
development of smart devices, frequent use of the internet, the advancement of various technologies and digital multimedia an audio clip can be easily edited and manipulated
without leaving any signs of forgery. Hence, authentication using simple listening tests may not be applicable because audio is altered in such a way that it is unable to detect
the changes. Before presenting the recorded audio as an evidence in the court of law, the forensic analyst has to focus on the number of tasks such as to check whether the
recording has been tampered before submitting, identify the types of tampering (copy move, splicing, insertion) and the locations of these tampering attacks in original audio,
identifying the environment in which original audio was recorded or the recording device and verifying the integrity of the audio evidence. 

There are different types of tampering attacks that can be done on original audio files. Splicing, copy-move, insertion, and deletion are some of the common tampering attacks. When short clip of one audio is copied and pasted to another location in the same audio this is called copy-move operation. Insertion is process of inserting some part of one audio at the start, middle or at the end of another audio of same environment. Splicing is replacing some part of audio with another audio of different environment.

The project focuses on splicing forgery detection and it deals with extracting Mel frequency cepstral coefficient (MFCC) and decay rate distribution (DRD) features. Here the new category of features is presented that is based on the approach of blind reverberation time (RT) estimation. The features are extracted by dividing an audio signal in terms of sub-band energy decay rate and the basic statistics are applied for the decay rate distribution in time and frequency bands. The combined feature set is referred to as decay rate distribution (DRD) features. 

The methodology to extract reverberation based features from the audio recording assist in identifying the environment of audio recording. Background noise and reverberation are the parameters used as signatures to identify any particular environment of audio recording. The presence of more than one environmental noise or reverberation component in audio is sign of splicing forgery. Mel-frequency cepstral coefficients are also used as feature while the Knearest neighbor (KNN), Support Vector Machine(SVM), Decision Tree and Random Forest are used for classifying forged and un-forged audios.Then inorder to increase the accuracy deep learning models ANN, CNN and LSTM are trained. 
